This datasets is related to red variants of the Portuguese "Vinho Verde" wine. For more details, consult the reference [Cortez et al., 2009]. Due to privacy and logistic issues, only physicochemical (inputs) and sensory (the output) variables are available (e.g. there is no data about grape types, wine brand, wine selling price, etc.).

This dataset is also available from the UCI machine learning repository, https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/wine+quality.

Content

For more information, read [Cortez et al., 2009].
Input variables (based on physicochemical tests):
1 - fixed acidity: most acids involved with wine or fixed or nonvolatile (do not evaporate readily)

2 - volatile acidity: the amount of acetic acid in wine, which at too high of levels can lead to an unpleasant, vinegar taste

3 - citric acid: found in small quantities, citric acid can add 'freshness' and flavor to wines

4 - residual sugar: the amount of sugar remaining after fermentation stops

5 - chlorides: the amount of salt in the wine

6 - free sulfur dioxide:the free form of SO2 exists in equilibrium between molecular SO2 (as a dissolved gas) and bisulfite ion

7 - total sulfur dioxide:amount of free and bound forms of S02; in low concentrations, SO2 is mostly undetectable in wine

8 - density: the density is close to that of water depending on the percent alcohol and sugar content

9 - pH: describes how acidic or basic a wine is on a scale from 0 (very acidic) to 14 (very basic); most wines are between 3-4

10 - sulphates: a wine additive which can contribute to sulfur dioxide gas (S02) levels, wich acts as an antimicrobial 

11 - alcohol: the percent alcohol content of the wine

Output variable (based on sensory data):
12 - quality (score between 0 and 10) : output variable (based on sensory data, score between 0 and 10)


Relevant publication

P. Cortez, A. Cerdeira, F. Almeida, T. Matos and J. Reis. Modeling wine preferences by data mining from physicochemical properties. In Decision Support Systems, Elsevier, 47(4):547-553, 2009.